Add deploy erc20 remix (new IA) (#1159)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: smart-contracts/cookbook/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/erc20-remix.md

tutorial_badge: Beginner
categories: Basics, dApps, Smart Contracts
tools: EVM Wallet, Remix
---

# Deploy an ERC-20 to Polkadot Hub

## Introduction

[ERC-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20){target=\_blank} tokens are fungible tokens commonly used for creating cryptocurrencies, governance tokens, and staking mechanisms. Polkadot Hub enables easy token deployment with Ethereum-compatible smart contracts and tools via the EVM backend.

This tutorial covers deploying an ERC-20 contract on the Polkadot Hub TestNet using [Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/){target=\_blank}, a web-based development tool. The ERC-20 contract can be retrieved from OpenZeppelin's [GitHub repository]({{ dependencies.repositories.open_zeppelin_contracts.repository_url}}/tree/{{ dependencies.repositories.open_zeppelin_contracts.version}}/contracts/token/ERC20){target=\_blank}  or their [Contract Wizard](https://wizard.openzeppelin.com/){target=\_blank}.

## Prerequisites

Before starting, make sure you have:

- An EVM-compatible wallet [connected to Polkadot Hub](/smart-contracts/integrations/wallets){target=\_blank}. This example utilizes [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/){target=\_blank}.

> - A funded account with tokens for transaction fees. This example will deploy the contract to the Polkadot TestNet, so you'll [need some TestNet tokens](/smart-contracts/connect/#test-tokens){target=\_blank} from the [Polkadot Faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/?parachain=1111){target=\_blank}.

Author: I think we should link to the faucet page in the first hyperkink and the actual faucet in the second

title: Deploy an ERC-20 to Polkadot Hub
description: Deploy an ERC-20 token on Polkadot Hub using PolkaVM. This guide covers contract creation, compilation, deployment, and interaction via the Remix IDE.
tutorial_badge: Beginner
categories: Basics, Smart Contracts
tools: EVM Wallet, Remix
---

# Deploy an ERC-20 to Polkadot Hub

## Introduction

> [ERC-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20){target=\_blank} etokens are fungible tokens commonly used for creating cryptocurrencies, governance tokens, and staking mechanisms. Polkadot Hub enables easy token deployment with Ethereum-compatible smart contracts and tools via the EVM backend.

Author: @Telucero not correct `etokens`?

> 3. Now, paste the following ERC-20 contract code into the editor:

Author: Solved

        

## Compile the Contract

The compilation transforms your Solidity source code into bytecode that can be deployed on the blockchain. During this process, the compiler checks your contract for syntax errors, ensures type safety, and generates the machine-readable instructions needed for blockchain execution. 

To compile your contract, ensure you have it opened in the Remix IDE Editor, and follow the instructions below:

1. Select the **Solidity Compiler** plugin from the left panel.
2. Click the **Compile MyToken.sol** button.
3. If the compilation succeeded, you'll see a green checkmark indicating success in the **Solidity Compiler** icon.

![](/images/smart-contracts/cookbook/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/erc20-remix-1.gif)

## Deploy the Contract

Deployment is the process of publishing your compiled smart contract to the blockchain, making it permanently available for interaction. During deployment, you'll create a new instance of your contract on the blockchain, which involves:

1. Select the **Deploy & Run Transactions** plugin from the left panel.
2. Configure the deployment settings.

>     1. From the **ENVIRONMENT** dropdown, select **Injected Provider - MetaMask** (check the [Deploying Contracts](TODO){target=\_blank} section of the Remix IDE guide for more details).

Reviewer: I believe we could add the link to the page that was created, even though it's empty for now. This would make things easier, so in the future, when we populate the remix page, we don't have to circle back to this.

```suggestion
    1. From the **ENVIRONMENT** dropdown, select **Injected Provider - MetaMask** (check the [Deploying Contracts](/smart-contracts/dev-environments/remix/deploy-a-contract/){target=\_blank} section of the Remix IDE guide for more details).
```
